# Introduction

## What is Enterprise Architecture?

Every organisation has an enterprise architecture. They have people and processes, data and technology, and regularly make investments in order to attain their strategic goals and objectives.  In many, the enterprise architecture has not been consciously designed, and initiatives are managed in isolation, produce localised benefits, can overlap, and can even conflict with each other. In other organisations, enterprise architecture is considered for all significant initiatives – the aim being to guide investments and maximise benefits in pursuit of achieving the organisation’s strategic and tactical goals and objectives. 

The practise of “enterprise architecture” (EA) envisions the enterprise as a connected system of people, processes, technology and data which combine to make a single, whole entity. It is business focused (as opposed to technology focused) and works to ensure that initiatives and investments are made in the context of the whole and are aligned to the strategic direction and goals of the enterprise. 

## What is the Portal?

The Architecture Portal (“the portal”) is a central repository of all information pertaining to the Enterprise Architecture (EA) of an organization. This includes the Business, Application, Technical and Data architecture domains and the links between them. 

The portal essentially comprises of five models which graphically represent the overall institutional Enterprise Architecture, and the four domains named above. In addition to these, the portal stores and visualises: 

- Data interchanges between applications (integration) 
 
- Physical/virtual infrastructure provisions for applications (underlying technology) 

- Application components and linkages 

- Functional capabilities of applications 

## Why do we need the Portal?
The portal makes an organization's Enterprise Architecture visible and tangible.  

The Health Assessment functionality throughout the portal enables areas of strength and weakness to be identified quickly and easily through visual heat maps. 

The portal works on different levels, from the Enterprise Architecture and Domain models at the highest level, to the detailed technical deployment and network diagrams of individual applications.  

When properly populated with data, the portal can present a quick and easy way of identifying impacts of proposed changes. 

The base domain models provide a foundation on which to build layers or supplementary information which will support decision making (e.g. resourcing, cost, application to capability maps, data to application maps). 

The portal is also able to clearly identify where data flows around the organization's systems. 

## Health Assessments

Many elements within the portal can have assessments of their health applied and made visible. The portal incorporates a flexible, user definable health assessment capability: assessment templates can be built based on any criteria considered appropriate and applies to Business Capabilities, Applications, Technologies, and Enterprise Architecture artefacts. Once applied, the results of the health assessments can be displayed on the screen. 

### Examples 

- Health assessment for a **business capability** might assess the level and skill of the people assigned to supporting it, the maturity and robustness of its associated business processes, the fitness for purpose of the technology which underpins it and the quality of data in which it depends or which it produces or manages. 

- Health assessment for an **application** might assess the business fit, the cost of ownership, the technical risk and the operational risk associated with the application. 

## The Domains and their Associated Models

### Enterprise Architecture

The Enterprise Architecture model is based on the dimensions identified in the NZ Government Enterprise Architecture (GEA-NZ). 

It represents eight dimensions of Enterprise Architecture and identifies artefacts and models which support them. It is a single window which can be used to describe Enterprise Architecture at the institutional level, and to access a range of resources such as strategy documents, policies and architectural models. 

Health assessments can be recorded and displayed against all artefacts and entities in the model. 

All objects in the model can drill down to external resources and to other models within the portal. 

Clicking on an artefact will navigate to a “details” page for that artefact. 

### Business domain - Business Reference Model (BRM)

The Business Reference Model (BRM) displays a map of organisational capabilities that are required for the organization to be successful, covering the core domains of Learning and Teaching and Research, and Enabling (administrative support) function domains. The model is based on the CAUDIT Higher Education Business Reference Model. 

Health assessments can be recorded and displayed for individual capabilities. 

Drill downs enable viewing the detail of linked business capabilities, linked applications and a health assessment of the business capability. 

### Application domain - Application Reference Model (ARM)

The Application Reference Model (ARM) is an overlay which sits on top of the BRM. It maps out the enterprise level user-facing software applications which support the business capabilities which make up the BRM. 

Each application can have a health assessment recorded and displayed. 

Drill downs enable more detailed viewing of the application, including its components, supporting infrastructure, supporting technology, data interchanges with other systems, and major data entities managed or used. 

### Technical domain - Technical Reference Model (TRM)

The Technical Reference Model (TRM) displays in graphic form, the technology stack which supports the organization, from the data centre infrastructure, through virtualisation, networks, right to infrastructure applications, operating systems and platforms. 

Each technology component can have health assessments recorded and displayed, as well as its status in terms of support for its use. 

### Data/Information domain - Data Reference Model (DRM)

The Data Reference Model displays the major conceptual data entities which underpin the organization’s operations. 

These data entities are then linked to applications and integrations so ownership and propagation can be easily visualised and tracked. Ownership and source of data entities are identified. 