# Technology Health Summary
## Architecture Portal – Technology Health

Many elements within the portal can have assessments of their health applied and made visible. The portal incorporates a flexible, user definable health assessment capability: assessment templates can be built based on any criteria considered appropriate and applies to Business Capabilities, Applications, Technologies, and Enterprise Architecture artefacts. Once applied, the results of the health assessments can be displayed on the screen. Technology Health is portrayed graphically in a bubble diagram, with colours indicating its level of health and the size of the bubble indicating the Service Level Agreement (SLA) level.

### Examples

- Health assessment for a **business capability** might assess the level and skill of the people assigned to supporting it, the maturity and robustness of its associated business processes, the fitness for purpose of the technology which underpins it and the quality of data upon which it depends or which it produces or manages. 

- Health assessment for an **application** might assess the business fit, the cost of ownership, the technical risk and the operational risk associated with the application. 


## How do Health Assessments Work in the Portal?

The Portal has a flexible framework for constructing “Health” assessments which can then be applied to Technologies, Business Capabilities and Enterprise Architecture Artefacts. Although called Health Assessments, they can be any kind of assessment applied to any of these entities. 

The framework is made up of Metrics, which can then be brought together into Metric Sets (A metric set is effectively an Assessment template). Metric Sets are specialised to Capabilities, Enterprise Architecture Artefacts or Technologies. 

The metric sets (assessment templates) are then applied to a specific object (i.e. a capability or an EA artefact or a technology) and each metric receives a score. The Portal then converts these scores to percentages and ultimately displays them on the relevant model as a colour code on the display. The Portal assumes that a higher score for any given Metric, the more healthy the item being scored is in that Metric. 

## How do I create a Health Assessment Template?

### Step 1: Create the Metrics

- Access the Portal and select Edit from the drop down menu.

- Select “Metrics” from the Entities drop down menu.


**Note:**
- First review the metrics which already exist – they can be reused in multiple Metric Sets. Making changes to existing metrics is not advised unless you are fully clear on where they are used and are 100% confident that the change will be acceptable in these places. 

- If you need to create new metrics, do so by clicking on the "+"  icon at the top of the left hand panel. Enter the details in the edit panel on the right. All fields are mandatory. 

| Field | Description | Comment | 
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Metric ID | Unique internal identifier for the Metric – alphanumeric up to ** chars  |Case sensitive |
| Name | The name of the Metric which will display in the portal. Alphanumeric up to ** chars | Should be unique for usability but does not have to be for system integrity |
| Description | Brief description of the Metric. | Should explain what the Metric means and guide an assessor how to assess it |
| Category | Free text category up to ** chars | This defines how metrics are grouped in the Portal. See below for further explanation of how these impact the assessments and how they are displayed in the Portal. |
| Min Score | Minimum score that can be applied to this metric when recording an assessment | |
| Max score | Maximum score that can be applied to this metric when recording an assessment |  |
|      

Remember to save each metric as you create (or update) it by clicking on the "save" icon (top right of the right hand panel). 

Note that there will be a need to document outside of the Portal, details of what the metric means, and how it should be assessed and scored – this information is not contained within the portal. 

Once you have all the metrics you need, then you’ll need to create the Metric Set. 

### Step 2: Create the appropriate Metric Set

Depending on which type of entity you are creating the assessment template for, select the appropriate entity from the Entities drop down menu – you can choose from:  

- Capability Metric Sets (for capabilities displayed in the Business Reference Model)

- EA Artefact Metric Sets (for EA Artefacts displayed in the Enterprise Architecture Model)

- Technology Metric Sets (for Applications shown through the Application and Business Reference Models, and for other Technologies shown on the Technical Reference Model)

To create a new Metric Set, click on the "+" icon (top right in the left hand panel). 

Enter a unique ID and a name, then add in the required Metrics. 