<style>
table, th, td {
  border: 1px solid black;
} 
h2, h4 {color: RoyalBlue;}
</style>
# <b>Business Reference Model</b>

<h2>Architecture Portal – Business Reference Model</h2> 

The Business Reference Model is a graphic display of the Business Architecture of an organisation. Constructed using a combination of Value Chains and Business Capabilities, it represents all the capabilities required by the organisation to fulfil its mission. 

The Model is flexible and can cater for a broad range of combinations of value chains and capabilities, and has the ability of grouping these in logical bands. By default, all value chains and capability types are shown, with level 1 capabilities on display.  

The page includes "+" and "-" buttons in different places, which expand and collapse sections of the display and expand or collapse capabilities to show more or less levels of breakdown. 

Capabilities are placed in the context of a value chain or are arranged in logical groupings without reference to a value chain. The portal supports a hierarchy of capabilities to any level of granularity and enables a user to choose what level to display them to. 

The model has functionality which is controlled by options in the Function Bar. The function bar is located at the top of the model display. 

<h4> Navigation </h4>

Clicking on objects on the page navigates to a details page for the object.  

Objects which have details pages are: 
<ul>
<li>Capabilities </li>

<li>Business Units </li>
</ul>
These are covered in separate help files. 